Welcome, everyone, to the Data Science Hangout. This is an open space for current and aspiring
data science leaders to connect and chat about some of the more human-centric questions that
you all have around leadership. And we'll focus on questions that are most important
to you all. So I just want to say there's three ways that you can ask questions. So
you can jump in live. You can also put a question in the Zoom chat. And I can call on you and
pass the mic over to you. But we also have a Slido link as well, which Robert will share
in just a second here. And there you can ask anonymous questions as well. But just a quick
note that the session will be recorded and shared up to YouTube for anyone who's missed
it as well. And I am so excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Rami Krispin. And
Rami, I am very grateful to, who jumped in here last minute. We had a little switch up
with one of the leaders, Dates, and Rami was able to jump in here. He manages a data science
team focused on cost optimization and capacity planning. He's also the author of a hands-on
time series analysis book and several R packages. I think many of you may have seen Rami
on LinkedIn and Twitter and from various presentations that he's given to the community
as well. But I'd love to turn it over to you, Rami, and have you introduce yourself and chat a
bit about some of the work that you do. Thank you, Rachel. Thank you for the invite and thank
you everyone to join. So I'm Rami Krispin. I'm a data science manager at Appel. I'm not
representing in this talk Appel. I cannot talk on my work at Appel. Unfortunately, due to the
short time, I didn't have the time to go through our legal approval. But I will be happy to answer
any general questions about data science and, you know, the life of, you know, workflow and life of
data science. As Rachel mentioned, I'm really active in the open source community and since
the COVID starts mainly on creating packages that are related to COVID-19 data. Okay, and thank you
for the invite. Happy to be here. Definitely. Thank you, Rami. And I know we had just a few minutes to
connect before this as well, but would really love to kick off the discussion with asking what is
something that you're most excited about in data science right now? I would say probably like the
boring stuff that's going on in data science tools that are coming that related to production.
Like, you know, the Docker and GitHub Actions, the combination with R. And it's amazing how
simple is you can today you can take those free and open source tools and put your R code in
production. So, I'm really excited about, you know, that those tools are just coming. The more tools
are creating new tools every day. Yeah, I'm less excited about, you know, the other stuff,
the more sexy stuff, the deep learning. I think it's also important. But the productionize of your
code, I think that's what I'm really excited about. Awesome. Yeah, and I've seen a few great
talks that you've given for meetups on that too. So, we'll be sure to share those links with people
too. While we're waiting for a few questions to come in from the audience, I know something that's
come up quite a bit on these calls is how leaders handle that transition from an individual
contributor to a manager role. And I know this is something that you've experienced as well. And I'm
curious to chat more about this and what it's been like for you. Yeah, so I think, you know,
the starting point is that I love to code. And as an individual contributor, you do a lot of coding,
especially in R. And when I started the transition to manager, I thought that I could
continue to code, not as much as, but at least like, you know, half of my time. And then during
the transition, I realized that you need to give away some of your coding. And, you know, the trade-off
that you start to someone that has a passion to coding, it was, I think, you know, it took me a
while to recognize that I just need to do less of the coding and focus on the important stuff. You
don't want to be the bottleneck that people are waiting for PRs and you're just submitting all
days. And, you know, so that was the tough part. But then like you, as a manager, I think your role
is to help the other data scientists to do the work. So I think it's also important. So that's,
I think, the trade-off when you're moving to do like a data science scoping and general project
management. But our time is there doing less coding for my experience.
How did you actually make that transition then? Was it also like, by doing some of the stuff in
your free time and working on open source packages, does that help you with that?
That was my, you know, my running, you know, my free time to do more. Yeah, I started to do more
coding in my free time. It's like the, you're afraid to lose the connection with the ground,
right? That you are starting to do other stuff and you're disconnecting from what's happening on,
you know, the first time where the important stuff are happening.
I, and I enjoy it. So it's the combination of the two. So I, you know, I, that was my
runaway to do more of my free time, more open source. But I think over time it will be,
it will reduce that life, right? You need to recognize that you need,
if you want to go to management, that's the cost that you need to pay.
Yeah. And I see an anonymous question that just came in around this. Did you know that you wanted
to make that jump to management or was it just the right opportunity? How did you make that
decision to become a manager? I knew from the first place that,
that's the, you know, from career perspective, this is where I want to go.
But I think I didn't realize, you know, when I saw my manager that is, he's not a data scientist, but
he's all day meetings. I thought because he's, you know, he's from the, more from the business
sides, but as a data science manager, you still going to do, you know, part of the time coding
and be involved. But then like in, in really short time, I realized that I spent most of my time in
meeting. So it's, you know, it was, for me, it was the process of one year doing this transition
that I, at some point I said, I told my manager, I cannot, you know, continue maintain the project
that I maintained before. And I, I need to be full-time manager to not to be the bottleneck
for my team. So I feel that's kind of like the, the, the year of transition that I had until I,
you know, I can say that now I'm fully data science manager,
less doing coding.
What would you say is one of the most difficult things then of, of being a manager?
I think that you,
you need to, you know, you need to understand better the business as a manager, it's expect more
than you before as ICT. So it's another transition.
And yeah, I think that's kind of like, you know, it's additional to understand the biggest,
biggest picture. It was also something that needed to be done.
Yeah. And I see another anonymous question that just came in, thinking about hiring,
and I know we chatted about this briefly, but what kind of skills would you look and
look for in a candidate? And how does that vary based on seniority? So entry data scientists to
senior? So generally, I'm not, you know, not, you know, that's my opinion.
So when, when you are having a team of our users, you, at a certain point, you want to hire people,
you know, that you don't want to, during the recruiting, you don't want to evaluate the
skills, you want to be beyond the starting day, you know, the interview process that, you know,
those people are good, our programmer, and you can focus on the important stuff, right, the
feed for the team and how people take a business problem and translate it into a data science
solution. So that's, that's, I feel like it's important as a, when you are hiring people is to
be able to articulate like that, you know, starting in a job description, to write a very
clear job description that you are looking for, for example, our users and what are the skills.
And then, you know, we're looking at, I'm looking at this at the GitHub,
if there is, if not, so I'm trying to find, you know, good evidence for people that they,
about their R background. And this is kind of like a, one of the challenging things that not
all people have the time to go and maintain a GitHub. So, but having a GitHub is providing
good visibility about some skills. And the other thing is like, I know that the first question,
you know, after we are leaving the R skills and the statistical skills aside, like,
I usually, I want, you know, the way I think of it, like, is it, is this person, is it someone I
want to sit in the morning and have coffee? It is like the general feed for the team, right? We have
a good culture, so it's a general feed for the culture. Then the business, you know, the ability
to understand the business problem, it's important, be able to be independent. So, that's the thing
that I, no matter the role, I think it's important things that you should look at.
Yeah. And I think it's so important that you've also been in that position too. So,
being someone applying to a bunch of different jobs and trying to figure out, like, what's the
best way to get noticed by certain companies as well, or to have your skills show through.
And I think it'd be really helpful for people here today to kind of hear that process you went
through too. Yeah. So, you know, we talked about it before. So, when I, when, so, more with a bit
of a background, when I graduated my master's, I was kind of like, I was originally planning to go
to PhD. And last moment, I decided not to continue. And then I was, oh my God, I need to find
a job. And it was a short, kind of like a short notice. And I found myself that I'm,
you know, I wasn't prepared. So, I realized that when you're applying to tons of jobs and,
you know, barely get response, the way to get, you know, visibility is to create, to rebrand
myself. If you have a certain skills, but you're not rebranding yourself, you are,
you can easily can get lost. So, I think that the rebranding is super important.
You know, it could be through the open source, social media, and other, you know, platform.
That's what drove me to start to do the, or one of the things drove me to start to go to the open
source and then like also enjoy it. So, it's kind of like, was a fun experience. So, yes, I have a
few people that I'm mentoring and I always advocate, you know, make sure that you are
showing the world your skills. It's, you know, you can be very talented, but if you're not telling it
and you're not sharing it, so it's very hard for people to recognize it. So, I think that's
kind of like the, you know, the starting point. Do you think one of the best ways of doing that is
also contributing to our packages or what way was most successful for you?
So, I think there is the person that hired me on this call and I remember when I joined
my role as data science at Apple, the first thing he told me that,
you know, 1,000 people applied for this role, but you were the only one that we could go and
see on your GitHub that, you know, time series and forecasting. So, I think it is,
you know, it's the visibility, it provides a great visibility. If you are interested to go
to some domain, let's say that you are interested in classification or regression. So, writing about,
it's not, you don't need to start to develop packages. You can start with like, you know,
there is the daily coding in LinkedIn, which is a great, I enjoy what, you know, those junior
people that either in school or right after school doing, I enjoy to see what they're doing.
Some of them are very creative and it's provided a lot of visibility and it's also open eyes
about their work and it's also challenging you to learn new stuff. So, yes, it is one way,
but it's not the only way, you know, writing articles. So, I think that's worked for me.
You know, certain people have certain talents, so you should feel what works for you and then
go with this route. But I think in any way, creating the visibility is important.
I'm curious from the audience as well, if this is something that
you've experienced too or something that people are starting to do.
I'll jump in if that's all right. I think I 100% agree. I think, I mean, Rami's spot on with this.
I've certainly found like in, for my career, that being in like healthcare and like working
with like sensitive data, that ends up being a little bit difficult with like what people can
kind of expose on GitHub. Because a lot of my contributions have always been behind
the corporate GitHub and in private repositories for obvious security reasons, which makes it kind
of difficult. That isn't to say I couldn't like do something and be public about it. And I think
that that would be the advice I would give to people. I always like to see, as Rami says,
people's kind of like pet projects, no matter how big or how small. But I wanted to just add
that nuance that sometimes people come from industries that are a little bit more difficult,
like the data might not be so readily available and stuff like that.
Yeah. And this is sometimes challenging to find people that are in this world that they cannot
share their code, or they don't have the time just to go and, you know, create their own GitHub,
fancy GitHub. So, you know, when you're reading resumes, you should also not bias yourself only
by looking at the GitHub, but also try to find between the lines if there are other
stuff that those people are good at, or you can identify the skills that you're looking
for. But definitely having a GitHub, it's very... I think GitHub is the new resume.
I think that in schools, they should advocate the students to use more GitHub and those tools,
because this is the future. It's not just the present. So, definitely. And one of the things,
like, you know, I think that beyond the selfish things of contributing to open source,
because you want to build your stuff, it's also very novel to help others by building stuff.
I really believe in open source. I think it's a great thing to be part of this community,
no matter the language, and in particular, the R language. I don't need to say how great
our community is. It's not the most objective. This is the hometown. But
being part of the open source community, I think it's something I found very novel.
Definitely. And I see there's a few other questions that are coming in that are
related to this topic as well. One anonymous question was, how do you get
more comfortable with sharing your work and opinions on social media?
It seems pretty important in today's world.
So, first, I'm doing a separation between my work and my open source contributions.
And being part of a big corporate, anything that I'm putting on open source, I need to get
the legal approval from my company. But going back to the question,
I'm doing stuff that I find interesting. And I'm also trying not to do stuff that
might be controversial. Like, for example, when I started to do the COVID-19,
I just started a time series. It was February 2020, which was mainly in China.
And I thought, okay, I'm enjoying doing data packaging. It's very common in R.
I had some other packages for electricity in the U.S. and U.K., which seems to be another time
series. And maybe we can do some forecasts. But then, like, after a few days, I started to
realize that it's something I don't want to forecast. Or, you know, because it could be
sending the wrong message here. And I should be careful, because this is, like, pandemic is
different from electricity. And I don't want to mislead people, and then people will say,
oh, this forecast, it's going this direction, and use it. And I just, you know, it just stayed in
the domain of, this is just data. Each one can do whatever they want. I'm not going to do
any prediction. It's not my role. I realized that, you know, that, you know,
it's not my role. I realized that, you know, that other folks that should, this is their
profession, how to predict pandemic. So, you know, it's the combination between
find a way to do whatever you think that it's right to do, but avoid the stuff that
I don't know if it's a good answer to. Don't, you know, use the data correctly.
That's, like, when I see in the news, you know, people using data the wrong way. It's kind of,
like, an example of, like, what we as a data scientist or people that work with data should
avoid. Definitely. No, I think that's a great answer, Rami. Thank you for bringing that up,
too. Daniel, I see you had a question you asked in the chat, and I would love to kind of pass
the mic over to you and have you ask that. Sure, sure. You can hear me okay?
Yep, you sound great. Okay. So, it was really, Rami, just related to your comments started to
start about, like, as a manager, being more comfortable with doing a little bit less coding
in general, and my question is really, like, certain places, in addition to being kind of,
like, the people manager, project manager, they may want you to be kind of, like, the tech lead,
the tech fixer, so the people, the person that people turn to when they have particular
tech things that they need a solution on or where they're stuck, and so do you think you can
do less coding as a manager if you have, like, a particular other person who is kind of taking
the lead on those tech questions, or is that, like, is that not feasible to be able to be,
like, a people manager doing less coding, doing project management, and being kind of, like, the
tech lead? That's a great question. I think if you are a diverse team, you will have the
different people with the different domain knowledge that they could help the team,
you know, the tech lead in a different domain, so in my team, there are people that
they are great in Docker, they are great in Shiny, they are great in our markdown, you know, so
whenever I have a problem, I know where, and everybody knows where to go,
and it's not, the burden is not on me. I cannot control, you know, I cannot be the tech lead for
all those domain area, and I don't think it's the manager role. The manager or the team role is to
hire diverse people and people from different backgrounds and develop those skills and let them,
let the room to grow in a different direction, let people to do what they love,
and that creates, like, a very diverse environment that if someone gets stuck with some Docker or
with Shiny modules or something like this, data pipeline, there is someone that you can
go and help you. I would be very happy to help you find a solution.
I hope this is answering your question, Daniel. Yeah, it does, and it's very helpful. Thank you,
Rami. Sure. Rami, in terms of the tools that you use, and this could be in a prior role as well,
did you ever face any challenges or biases against R in your workplace or when you're looking for a
job? I think there is, you know, there is the bias for people that never used R before.
So, it's like when you're coming to a meeting and you meet someone and it's like, oh, I never
knew about R besides, you know, that we're the, you know, we're the couple of weeks ago,
we met with someone that is a software engineer or a software developer, and it's like, oh,
I never knew that R can do all this stuff, and it was enlightening to, you know, to get this
feedback that people were not aware and they discover and kind of, like, reduce this bias.
I think the other part is, like, when you have a big team that, you know, you have the people
that are more based on R and the tidyverse and the gtplot and the plotly and it's getting great
discussions about, you know, which tool to use and, you know, what is the right way or
probably there's no right way, you know, each one should use whatever they feel like.
But definitely there is a bias, I think, about R in a big company that is,
you know, the majority are Pythonic. It's like, why are you using R?
How people don't, I think most people just don't aware what R can do or why statistician,
it's very natural for us to use R. And I find myself and my colleagues explaining why R is a
great tool for what we're doing. But I think when people see the results, they, I think,
they agree about it. So, yeah.
Yeah, and in that case where you were meeting with, say, a software engineer who isn't,
is familiar with R, how do you communicate that or is it by showing your work?
It's just usually like we explain, you know, either we are showing, you know, some of the
deliveries that we, you know, we created in R or explain why us as a, you know, data scientist,
we choose R as opposed to other tools. And, you know, we are using R whenever R
is the best tool to use. And if we need to use Python, we will use Python for other tasks with
R as less application. So, it's not that we are, you know, we are R fanatics and we will use R
because it's a great tool for what we're doing. And there are other fronts that maybe are as
less application Python is most, is stronger. So, we'll use Python. So, it's, you know, just
choose the tools that fit best to your work. It should not be like some religious stuff that
we are just using R or we're just using Python and, you know, that's R versus Python. We're not there.
And also, someone else texted me about batch. So, we're also using batch a lot. Yes.
And Julia, I see on your Twitter. So, Julia is more exploratory. We're still not there.
I believe that you guys, you know, it's the future. So, I definitely see in the future that
we will be part of the ecosystem of R as if today, for example, if you want to make your R code
efficient, you will use the R CCP or, you know, you will call some C++ or C to make your code
run faster. So, Julia is another tool that can enable you to run your code faster.
And it's easy to write compared to other languages. So, I definitely see that in the future,
we're going to see more Julia. I remember, like, in the last R Studio conference,
that one of the questions in San Francisco to the last onsite, one of the questions to JJ
on the, I think, in the opening, you know, does R Studio is going to incorporate Julia
in R Studio? And he answered no. But I feel like if someone, in a couple of years, I would see
Julia also, like Python today, becoming part of the R Studio. I see that Julia will be also
one of the citizens of R Studio.
So, maybe shifting gears a little bit, I see Frank, you asked a question around
communicating to stakeholders, I believe. I'm scrolling back a little bit. But
would you want to jump in and ask that one? Yeah, Rami, thanks for your insights here.
One of the things you mentioned, and I think I got this right. And if not, please correct me.
But you were saying you create forecasts. And then sometimes the users will say, well,
what's going to happen in the future? Can you make tweaks to your forecast? Because I want to
consider this in there, too. And, right, I think what you said is your forecast is based on
historical data and history. And there's this methodology. And you don't want to go in and
manually really dance around too much, because then it breaks your methodology. And if that's
what you said, do you have any tips or tricks for us when we're communicating to folks the
difference between like, hey, I have this model, I have this method, it works well, we've backtested.
And if I start going and taking your intuition and assumptions, user, and like messing around with
that, it's going to kind of break how it could be used by multiple parties. I'm guessing they don't
love that. So I think that the first thing is that you need to be honest about what the
forecast is about, what are the limitations, where it's going to fail. And for example,
forecast is looking at the historical and using the historical to predict. But sometimes,
you know, like we saw it in the COVID, right, that if you look at some of the
economical indicator that either went really up, like the unemployment, or went really down,
like the flights, or stuff like this, that no matter what your historical data cannot help you.
So I think, you know, in the first place, setting the expectation of what the forecast can do is
important. Definitely making sure that you're also providing conference intervals. On top of it,
I would say that, back to your questions, that typically, as a data scientist, you would,
you want to work with some business analysts that have context about the future,
that as a data scientist, that we are only looking at the past. We don't have this context,
like a, let's say, if you're working in sales that have some product, and you know that in
the future, going to be some campaign, or going to be some shift of a new product going to affect
the sales of your specific product. And this is where they will do the manual adjustment. And,
you know, they will have to advocate to the business why they made those adjustments. I
think when there is big uncertainty, it's good to have more than one option. So you can also,
you know, we can incorporate to some regression model. And, you know, by adding some flags, and
then say, if I move this flag up a little bit or down, like a, think about like some kind of like a
spline, that you can say the spline is going to be longer than, you know, you're creating a longer
edge or shorter edge, and to say the different scenarios. So I think having kind of like what if
analysis when you're, you know, when this total is not enough, it's probably my favorite option.
But I think it's also you need to be honest. And we just called us about what the limitation of
the forecast that, you know, some people think that science is a magic. And I think it's important
to set the expectation that we're not precision, it is science and there are limitations, right?
Can tell us some story, but you know, the future sometimes is as different.
Yeah. I love that. I think a mistake we often make is that we go through classes and we go
through courses. And we believe that there's a problem out there. And then there's one model
to solve that problem. Like, what technique do I know that I can apply to this problem? And then
like, we'll call it a day, we solved it. But what you said reminds me of the idea of, like, we talk
a lot about ensemble models, but there's also like the idea of ensemble perspectives. So if
we're working with users and we like, Hey, yeah, so there's a forecast model here. It has its
limitations. Let's be honest about that. Like you said, but then here's another way to look at it.
And here's another way to look at it. I think that is where us as a group on this call can
really turn the tide and get users on board. You're charging ahead.
And I think typically you see the data scientists work better when they have some business analysts
that help them to articulate the problem and guide them with, well, some of the
insights about the business that just looking at it, you might not have. So I think it's
important to combine and get this help with someone from the business.
Agreed.
Olli, I see you just had a question there as well around the explainability of models. Would you
want to jump in and ask that?
Yeah, absolutely. First of all, thank you for your fantastic insights, Remy. My name is Olli.
I'm working with data at the Institute of Reykjavik. I had a question regarding when you operationalize
models. And so I face that often when we have to have a discussion with our stakeholders.
What are these models telling us? Like the explainability of models, like inferring,
like how the predictors are actually affecting your response. And I find that to be a fascinating
subject. Like when you need to work with stakeholders, you need to have a discussion on,
hey, did you know that this predictor is influencing your response in this way? And I can
show you in a graph, like if it would be a linear model, it's easy to explain. But I'm curious about
this in general, and especially in time series modeling with what you're doing. Like, do you
have to have these discussions with your stakeholders at Apple? Do you need to exhibit
the outputs or the models in a way that, like how the predictors are influencing the response?
Do you show that graphically or graph or in story? I feel like those things are important within the
organization, even though it's obvious to the data scientists. Do you have any comments on that?
That's a good question without referring to my work or anything like this. But generally,
I think that you're going to be two type of stakeholders, or generally two types of
stakeholders. The one, they not necessarily care about the type of models. They care about the
results and they want to see something like some forecast that they can use. The other type of
stakeholders that actually, they want to know more about the models that use them may not be
statistician or background with the modeling, but they either need to articulate it to their
managers or they need to present it and use it so that they want to make sure that they are
understanding the model, the methodology. So I think in this case, it's nice to do some
to take the time and have meeting to explain them. I'm using three type of models. So example,
I'm using ARIMA. This is how ARIMA model is working, or this is how a linear regression
is modeled using, if you are users like coming with a shiny example that you can
say, if I'm now changing this parameter, this is how effect the output. This is how
calculates seasonality. I think that the best tool to explain people is data visualization.
If you combine it with some shiny application or something similar that they can see the interaction
of the model with the data. And now when you change some parameter, it's effect the output.
I think it's easy to extend and get them on board. Yes, absolutely. I think that's
a really good point. And it presents you with an opportunity to have a discussion with your
stakeholders in a way that you can both relate to. And because in my, at least in my work,
I'm not an expert in the business domains of my stakeholders, but I'm an expert in data.
So we need to have this common ground to have a conversation. And I feel like this is the way in.
And not to be overly technical, but presented in a graph and tuning things, it can lead to further
insights into the underlying processes in the data, like physical processes. All right, good.
Thank you. Really insightful. You're welcome. Thank you, Ole. Mubanga, and apologies if I'm
pronouncing your name wrong. I see you asked a few questions in there and I don't want to
assume priority. So I'd love to have you ask your favorite question as well.
And I actually have enjoyed the discussion thus far because I'm in, I just became a manager
this month, actually. So the trajectory that Rami has traversed over the last,
I mean, at the beginning is similar to mine. I'm very technical in my day-to-day job,
so I'm finding it hard to be a manager and leave the technical work to the other team members.
So I think I would like some additional pointers from Rami on that aspect.
Definitely. And congrats on the new role as well.
Congratulations again. Thank you.
Yes, so if I understand correctly, like what is the, the question is,
so the question is, what is the, you know, the transformation from to management? What are the...
Yes.
So, you know, I know if you have, if you are carrying with you the project that you
managed, you know, you were part of the people that did before those, those projects as a
individual contributor, I think it's a, make sure that you are, find someone that will continue.
I think, you know, this is where I find myself continue to do what I did before carrying my
projects, but also start to be a full-time manager. And then like in, in terms of time
management was very challenging. So I think thinking about transition of your past project,
assuming that you're still maintain them is important. And thinking about
your time, right? There's maybe the, at least the beginning, you're trying to do, to
do both your, your previous task and also the new task. And then there is a limit of time,
how much you can work crazy hours and a long time you will burn yourself. So that's,
I feel my main advice, right, to make sure there is a good transition
and focus on the important stuff as a manager, like, you know, make sure that your team
has whatever they need to success.
Thank you. And there's another question related to this as well from earlier,
from earlier being more of a technical person. Did you always have those managing skills
or people skills or did you have to learn them?
I think I have, I had some of them and, you know, down, you know, you always learning new stuff.
So I did before my role, you know, my life as a data science, I did some management roles. So
working, working with people and, you know, the ability to manage a team, it's something that
I think I had before, but also data science will be different. So I
was also learning experience for, for my end. I think what, you know, for example,
scoping data science project was something that I learned.
I would say, I don't want to say the other way, but it was the other way this year.
So there are some skills that I came with and some skills that I learned
through the process and mainly related to scoping.
And apologies if other people know exactly what that looks like, but I, but I don't. So
what does that look like scoping and data science project?
I think the first thing is to understand the business problem and make sure that the
business problem is defined correctly. And going back to the, you know, what we,
the question from Frankie about, you know, working with the focus, but like you need to
have some business analyst that, or someone, you know, the terms, you know, business analyst or
data analyst that define what this problem that we are trying to solve without it, you,
it's easy to get lost. So, you know, scoping is, is translate the business problem into
data science features. And I think there are two in the project that I, for my perspective,
there are two challenges in a data science project. One is to define the business problem.
The other, the second one are more challenging is to find a data that
required to solve the business problem. If, if you are able to solve those two,
the modeling part, and, you know, it's the easy part and it's like, like the 70, 30 or 80,
20% time allocation between the data and the modeling. That's I think the reality.
So if you want to articulate the business problem correctly, it's easy to get lost. And I think
that's kind of like the, the most important part when you're starting a project.
Thank you. And just because a few of these questions have come up so far, I, I think it
may be helpful. And maybe to ask the audience as well, if you have resources, maybe that you
think would be helpful for a new manager in terms of like learning those people skills as well.
I'd love to hear what has been useful for everyone.
Or if anybody wants to jump in as well.
See, only said five dysfunctions of a team.
One other question, Rami, that just came in anonymously was, have you faced a situation
where user is looking for causal inferences from a predictive model? If so, how do you deal with
that? Not necessarily causal inference, but more, you know, the users that they try to understand
the mechanism of the model. And this is where I would go and sit with that stakeholder and
experiment my methodology. We'll try to do it as simple as possible. I always advocate to use,
you know, if you can use something simple, use it. Don't, it's not necessary to be fancy.
More fancy is not necessarily better results. So, yeah, I don't know, I don't know if there's
try to explain like how regression is working to and how we use it to solve some problem
or different model is something that I would do. And again, the best method is like to create
our markdown with the data and with, you know, going through the process and use some shiny
components. That's my favorite tool. I think I saw a LinkedIn post that you had about that as
well. Like you don't have to just use a deep learning model just because.
So, you know, usually like when I'm talking in a meetups on production, which I did,
I had two of those in the last two weeks. I would say that, you know, if someone
comes to me and say like, I can create a fancy deep learning models or some machine learning
models, that's great. But if someone will come to me, I can deploy my linear regression in
production. So this is a God. So I think that, you know, in the data science world today, at least
it's more important that you can be able to take your work into production than
don't do fancy stuff. Like if I can see my projection, my progress as a data science,
like I feel like that I had a normal curve, like as any other data science in the room here, that
when I was just starting as a really junior, I was into this deep learning machine and I was
curious about it. And over time, I realized that if I need to run a model like for one hour,
two hours to optimize it and probably get the same results as I would run linear regression,
it's probably not worth it just for the sake of saying that I did
something fancy. And if I cannot communicate it to others, like, you know, deploy it in a dashboard
or deploy it somewhere, it's worthless because, you know, you're not getting the recognition. So
today I think being like a full stack data scientist that you can
take your work into production and it's super important.
Thank you, Rami. I see Rob H., you've asked a question in the chat as well. Would you want
to ask that one live? Sure. Yeah, just talking to lots of data scientists and organizations,
it seems that often, not always, but often the highest value problems tend to be really complex
and then sort of the dichotomy of the simpler problems, but they tend to be lower value.
So I'm just curious how you navigate that.
How do you make those priorities to make sure that you tackle, because you touched on it before,
that's what made me think of it, you talked about the high, sort of the big problems.
How do you make sure that the organization is actually tackling those?
That's a good question. I would say that, you know, my approach is always to
approach stuff with the most simple and approachable solution.
And, you know, I always actually looking at the hanging fruit. Like if I see that the business,
all the problems that there are, and usually there are more problems that we can actually
solve because we're always bounded by resources. I always love to go first with the hanging fruits
and start with those ones, because this is where I get my quick wins and then move to the complex.
It's better to have something than nothing. It's another common phrase that our team is using.
And iteration. So you don't need to solve the problem completely, you know, to spend one year
just to solve a problem. If it's a complex stuff with something simple, you know,
deliver after one or two and keep iterating, improve it. At least you deliver something,
and, you know, the business start to see some value, rather than just do a long research and
maybe get something after a year. I think that there is a trade-off, right? As long as you can
articulate that it's not perfect and you need more time, but you're going to iterate and it's
a process and the business understand, I think that's what I like to do. There are some cases,
right, if you are, and it's not my domain, but if you are delivering a product for end users,
so then this is where you definitely need to address the complexity and make sure that you
solve it before you release it. But that's a different domain and I'm not in that domain.
I hope this is answering your question.
Yeah, thank you.
Rami, a question from earlier was, have you had to teach R skills to members of your team?
Do you have any tips for doing that?
So, typically they teach me new stuff. I'm fortunate that I am surrounding with very
smart people that they are, you know, we have lunch and learns. Actually, at 10 o'clock,
I'm jumping to internal R meetup that we have. So, we're trying to do as many as
those internal lunch and learn. If someone came and say, oh, I learn, I solve out to, you know,
I learn how to create a pipeline with that tool or I learn how to build this with that tool or
something like this. So, it's like the immediate response in our Slack is lunch and learn.
And so, we're trying to create an environment that we share the knowledge
and documentation is very important. If you learn something, we have like a big
book down that we, any new tools that we're using, we are just documented,
trying at least to document, not always doing a good job. At least I'm probably the worst in
documented, but that's the culture that we're trying to create to make sure that we are sharing.
That's awesome that you all do that. And I know one of the questions on a prior
hangout was around like getting people to talk as well. And like, how do you find people to
speak at these? And I love that you just say, you answer on Slack lunch and learn topic.
Seems like a great way of getting topics, too.
There's a general question that came in anonymously as well, which can be open to
anybody. But do you think as an R-first analyst or data scientist, you could manage a team of non-R
users? It should be as long as you're open and, you know, like, let's say that if tomorrow I need
to manage a team that are Python users, probably I should learn some Python. Because I think it's,
you know, as long as a manager, as I mentioned before, you are doing this coding, but like I
do review code. I do, I want to, you know, when we have a code review, you still want to make sure
that, you know, you understand what other folks are doing. So, I think in a, if you're still in
that management level, you should probably be open to learn the other language, if it's a Python or
any other language, to be involved and understand what the folks are doing.
And I know you've already mentioned that team uses both R and Python. But someone asked, can
you give a general example of when you would use R or when to use Python?
So, most of the time I'm using R because, you know, from the data, when you're loading data,
you're putting the data from APIs, the easy ways to, you know, put it with and process it with
and process it with dplyr and all the other great tools. The case that I will use, for example,
I'm using a lot of Bash, thanks to Denton, that is also here in this call.
And when you try to automate R code in some command line environment, and this is where,
you know, it's easier to do automation, call different R files, or if you're having some
YAML file with a manifest of some job, instead of doing multiple steps, it's just, you know,
we are calling it Bash script that doing those steps or in a Docker, when I'm building a Docker,
I also like to use Bash to automate. So, that's an example. I had some example, like,
if you need to pull some S3 objects. In the past, I used to, there is a Python package,
library called Pluto3. So, it was kind of like the native library to pull S3 objects. So, I used this.
But mostly, I'm using R.
I know we're getting to the top of the hour here, and you may have a lunch and learn to run to.
I'm hosting this lunch.
You're hosting it. Okay. So, real quickly, if people have follow up questions,
what's the best way to get in contact with you or to network with you? Is it LinkedIn?
Probably, yeah. I'm on LinkedIn, Twitter. Yeah. LinkedIn is probably
the platform that I'm most active.
And I could share your LinkedIn here really quickly, but you are also very easy
to find there. If people just search your name. But thank you so much, Rami. I really appreciate
it. I know you have to run, but great insights and thank you for jumping on and joining us.
Looking forward to next week as well. I'm sorry that I know there were a few questions we didn't
get to, but we can look at those and maybe carry them over to next week's Hangout, too.
Thank you so much.
Thank you all. Have a great rest of the day.